Title: A change in venue
Date: 2011-04-11 13:26:34
Category: Riskblog
Tags: Aggregated_Blogs
Slug: a-change-in-venue-jonesj-2011-04-11-13:26:34
Author: JonesJ

>[A change in venue](http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/Riskanalysis/~3/GRzFnUAzql4/) originally posted at [RiskAnalys.is](http://riskmanagementinsight.com/riskanalysis) and syndicated at [SIRA](http://societyinforisk.org)
***
I’m excited to announce that I’ve just accepted a position at Huntington Bank in Columbus Ohio as Senior Vice President and IT Risk Officer, starting May 1st.  This will be an outstanding opportunity to personally put FAIR through its paces in a way that just isn’t possible as a consultant.  Those of you who have been in the trenches understand that there’s nothing like the ownership and accountability that comes with a position like this to instill practical, effective solutions.

For those of you who aren’t familiar with FAIR’s history, its development began while I was the CISO of Nationwide Insurance.  The genesis was questions from management that I just couldn’t find answers to in what our profession had to offer.  During the early days of its development there were a lot of rabbit trails and dead ends (many of which were laughable looking back at them now), but the environment there was ideal — interested and supportive management, and no shortage of problems to evaluate and deal with.  The best part though, was the fact that I HAD to keep it practical and effective (contrary to the assumptions some people make about a quantitative analysis method).

Since leaving Nationwide, significant improvement and expansion to FAIR has occurred.  Only a small portion of these changes have been discussed in public.  Some of these changes have been well-vetted by clients, others less so simply because they’re so new.  In this new role I’ll have both the opportunity to “eat my own dog food” and face challenges that will undoubtedly result in further improvements to FAIR.

All of this, of course, begs the question of what will happen to RMI and RMI’s clients.  The plan is simple:

-   Existing engagements will be completed as defined.
-   FAIR consulting and onsite training will be available through qualified and licensed channel partners.  The RMI website will add a page that identifies those partners in the coming weeks.
-   Online training will continue to be offered through CXOWARE, which is headed-up by Steven Tabacek.
-   A SaaS version of FAIR software is under development and should be available by this Fall.  More information to follow soon.

Bottom line — RMI will continue to be the authoritative source of information and developments regarding FAIR and will leverage strategic partnerships to deliver FAIR products and services.  Of course, if you have any questions about this transition that haven’t been answered here, let me know.

\!\[img\](http://feeds.feedburner.com/~r/Riskanalysis/~4/GRzFnUAzql4)


